content/courses/intro-workshop/links-layouts/instructions.md, before:

# Instructions

## Introduction

Today we'll cover **two main concepts** through a mix of activities at the computer and moving around playing a game:

1. **Creating connections, or links, to different parts of a web site or even between sites** (40 minutes)
    - Pair programming
      - adding `a` HTML elements (`href` anchors with ids)
      - navigating to different pages?
    - Connecting Online Game
1. **Controlling how a web site is structures, or how elements are positioned** (30 minutes)
    - Pair programming
      - `border, padding, margin, display, position, float` CSS properties
1. **Project Time** (30 minutes)
    - Connecting and navigating between pages

You'll recall in over the last two day's we've talked about:

[Summary of key concepts]

We've also been working in teams (hopefully pairs!) at our computers to try out working on these activities, we'll start off doing that again today ⌨ 🖱.

## PAIR PROGRAMMING: Creating connections, or linking web sites

Links are one of the most common features of web sites, you can click on a link and "jump" or "follow" it to another page! The neat part about a link is that it doesn't have to be only text, it can be an image or other element.

Links are often "local", that means they take you to another page on the same site, however they can also be "extenal" and take you to another site, or image, document, or text that you don't really have control over.

```
**A link by another name**
Links used to be known as HTML links, hyperlinks (because the "H" stands for Hyper). When people are taking about _extenal_ links they often just refer to a link as a "URL" (Uniform Resource Locator) or "URI" (Uniform Resource Identifier), but those are actually the names of the thing being linked to, not the act of making a connection.

```

### Adding a Link

Let's try adding a link now --

1.  adding `a` HTML elements (`href` anchors with ids)


2A. adding a link to another page


2B. adding a link to another part of the same page


3. adding a link to the special RPi link page


## GAME: Connecting Online

We've started to practice using links and see how they can create paths, or routes, between different parts of our own pages and sites as well as maybe even _different_ sites.

Let's pause for a minute and talk about what that means-- creating links on the Web, that are visitable by everyone who comes to our web page:

[Explain Lessons -- make up lessons!!]


## PAIR PROGRAMMING: Layout and Positioning

Now that we have tried out adding links, and thought about what it means to have connections between our own pages and other people's, we should return to _how we organize our web pages_ so they are meaningful to us, and can be easier read by other people!

[topics `border, padding, margin, display, position, float` CSS properties]

Commit message:

add first link activity text

content/courses/intro-workshop/links-layouts/instructions.md, after:

# Instructions

## Introduction

Today we'll cover **two main concepts** through a mix of activities at the computer and moving around playing a game:

1. **Creating connections, or links, to different parts of a web site or even between sites** (40 minutes)
    - Pair programming
      - adding `a` HTML elements (`href` anchors with ids)
      - navigating to different pages?
    - Connecting Online Game
1. **Controlling how a web site is structures, or how elements are positioned** (30 minutes)
    - Pair programming
      - `border, padding, margin, display, position, float` CSS properties
1. **Project Time** (30 minutes)
    - Connecting and navigating between pages

You'll recall in over the last two day's we've talked about:

[Summary of key concepts]

We've also been working in teams (hopefully pairs!) at our computers to try out working on these activities, we'll start off doing that again today ⌨ 🖱.

## PAIR PROGRAMMING: Creating connections, or linking web sites

Links are one of the most common features of web sites. In fact, they are what make web sites a "web". You can click on a link and "jump" or "follow" it to another page! The neat part about a link is that it doesn't have to be only text, it can be an image or other element.

Links are often "local", that means they take you to another page on the same site, however they can also be "extenal" and take you to another site, or image, file, document, email, or phone number that you don't really have control over.

```
**A link by another name**
Links used to be known as HTML links, hyperlinks (because the "H" stands for Hyper). When people are taking about _extenal_ links they often just refer to a link based on the _type of destination_ as a "URL" (Uniform Resource Locator) or "URI" (Uniform Resource Identifier), but those are actually the names of the thing being linked to, not the act of making a connection.

```

### Adding a Link

Let's try adding a link now --

First things, a link is defined using the `<a>`, or anchor, element. It often looks like:

```
<a href="https://mozillaindia.org/">Mozilla India</a>
<a href="destination"><img src=""/></a>

```

In the element the `href` attribute specifies the _destination_, sometimes called an _address_

`<a href="destination">link text</a>`

1.  adding `a` HTML elements (`href` anchors with ids)


### Linking to another page

2A. adding a link to another part of the same page


2B. adding a link to another page



3. adding a link to the special RPi link page


## GAME: Connecting Online

We've started to practice using links and see how they can create paths, or routes, between different parts of our own pages and sites as well as maybe even _different_ sites.

Let's pause for a minute and talk about what that means-- creating links on the Web, that are visitable by everyone who comes to our web page:

[Explain Lessons -- make up lessons!!]


## PAIR PROGRAMMING: Layout and Positioning

Now that we have tried out adding links, and thought about what it means to have connections between our own pages and other people's, we should return to _how we organize our web pages_ so they are meaningful to us, and can be easier read by other people!

[topics `border, padding, margin, display, position, float` CSS properties]
